
General Questions:

1. Tell me brief about your self.
2. Tell me your day to day activities.
3. Tell me your roles and responsibilities.
4. How many servers in your environment 

	we have some servers in on-premises and some servers in cloud

5. How many of your team size

	in my team we have 50 members in that devops team is 6 members

6. what is your role means Designation

	devops engineer

7. how along you are working on devops

8. How much rating you wll give On DevOps, AWS
9. Which scripting Language you use for automation either shell or python
10. How much rationg you will give on scripting
11. Which versions using in your environment
12. Which ticketing tool you are using in your environment(jira)
13. which versions you are using in devops

Tool         Latest        Old

Git-----        2.12                    

Jenkins         2.7.4        2.7.3
 
puppet          2.7          2.6

chef            14

ansible         2.2          2.0/1

docker          1.7 

nginx           1.11          1.10

httpd/apache 	2.4          2.2/2.3

Installed packages versions:

package name    	latest version   	older or stable version
apache/https        	  2.4                          2.2
nginx                     1.11                        1.10
mysql                     5.7                         5.6/5.5


Git: 

1. what is the difference between git pull and git clone



git clone :means you are making a copy of the repository in your system.

git fork :means you are copying the repository to your Github account.

git pull :means you are fetching the last modified repository.

git push :means you are returning the repository after modifying it.

note:
git clone is downloading and git pull is refreshing.


2. what is the difference between git pull and git fetch

git fetch just "downloads" the changes from the remote to your local repository. 

Update your local repo from the remote (but don't merge):

git pull downloads the changes and merges them into your current branch. 

git pull == git fetch + git merge

3. what is staging area in git.

Staging is a step before the commit process in git. That is, a commit in git is performed in two steps: staging and actual commit.

As long as a changeset is in the staging area, git allows you to edit it as you like 

(replace staged files with other versions of staged files, remove changes from staging, etc.).

4. what is git stash


5. what is reset in git

6. What is the difference between HEAD and checkout in git

	HEAD is a reference to the last commit in the currently check-out branch.
	a "checkout" is the act of switching between different versions of a target entity. 
	The git checkout command operates upon three distinct entities: files, commits, and branches.

7. Have you configured github repository locally(git init, git add, git commit)


How do I start a Git repository locally?

    Create a new repository on GitHub. ...
    Open TerminalTerminalGit Bashthe terminal.
    Change the current working directory to your local project.
    Initialize the local directory as a Git repository. ...
    Add the files in your new local repository. ...
    Commit the files that you've staged in your local repository.
 
Jenkins: 

1. How to upload the .json file in jenkins


2. How to send the mail when build is unstable or broken

 	when there is a build failure or any changes in the build state(build is unstable or broken), we must get notified immediately through e-mail.
	so that we can fix the issue at the earlist. 
	there is emailer plugin available in jenkins that has be installed and configure it based on the requirement.

3. How to store the jenkins server backup and restore



4. How to take .xml files backup


JENKINS_HOME has a fairly obvious directory structure that looks like the following:


JENKINS_HOME
 +- config.xml     (jenkins root configuration)
 +- *.xml          (other site-wide configuration files)
 +- userContent    (files in this directory will be served under your http://server/userContent/)
 +- fingerprints   (stores fingerprint records)
 +- plugins        (stores plugins)
 +- workspace (working directory for the version control system)
     +- [JOBNAME] (sub directory for each job)
 +- jobs
     +- [JOBNAME]      (sub directory for each job)
         +- config.xml     (job configuration file)
         +- latest         (symbolic link to the last successful build)
         +- builds
             +- [BUILD_ID]     (for each build)
                 +- build.xml      (build result summary)
                 +- log            (log file)
                 +- changelog.xml  (change log)

All the settings, build logs, artifact archives are stored under the JENKINS_HOME directory. Simply archive this directory to a back up.

we have to take jenkins-home directory by using thin backup plugin You can set it to run on a schedule using standard cron notation by using build periodically.

Back ups can be taken without stopping the server, but when you restore, please do stop the server.

we can take jenkins-home directory backup to s3 bucket by using s3 plugin.


5. How to set the jenkins job build numbers

If you want to change build number via nextBuildNumber file

Under the job workspace folder, like:

C:\Program Files (x86)\Jenkins\jobs\job_name

there is a file named nextBuildNumber.

Setting the build number in the file and you should reloading the configuration 

from disk (Manage Jenkins page) will force the next build you start to have the value from the file as BUILD_NUMBER.



6. What we can do with jenkins
 

Jenkins is an open source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for Continuous Integration and delivery purpose.
 
Jenkins is used to build and test your software projects continuously making it easier for developers to integrate changes to the project, 

and making it easier for users to obtain a fresh build.

We can build the projects , autodeploy, test the projects, send the notification.

7. Why we are using jenkins

Jenkins is an open source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for Continuous Integration and delivery purpose.
 
Jenkins is used to build and test your software projects continuously making it easier for developers to integrate changes to the project, 

and making it easier for users to obtain a fresh build.

We can build the projects , autodeploy, test the projects, send the notification....



8.   Do we need to install jenkins in nodes

Jenkins slave nodes can run on a variety operating systems like Windows and Linux, and there is no need to install full Jenkins packages on it. ... 
We will learn to set up the Jenkins master server, and then add other Ubuntu nodes as a Jenkins slaves



9.   How you can write and execute the shell script in jenkins


Execute shell script in Jenkins
These are the steps to execute a shell script in Jenkins:

    In the main page of Jenkins select New Item.
    Enter an item name like "my shell script job" and chose Freestyle project. ...
    On the configuration page, in the Build block click in the Add build step dropdown and select Execute shell.


10. How to manage the nodes, how to manage the users, how we can create particular project based authentications in jenkins.

Managing Jenkins master and slave nodes

    On the Jenkins dashboard, go to Manage Jenkins. Click on Manage Nodes link. ...
    To create a slave node, click on New Node.
    Provide Name, Description, Labels and so on. Select Launch slave agents via Java Web Start as Launch method. ...
    Click on Save. It will open a page that gives details on how to launch the slave node.

To verify this, login to Jenkins as admin, go to “Manage Jenkins”, click on “Configure Global Security”, 
and under the “Access Control” section, for the “Security Realm”, if you've selected “Jenkins' own user database”, then you can only create users, and not groups

How do I enable project based security in Jenkins?


    Login to Jenkins with your credentials.
    Go to "Manage Jenkins".
    Go to "Configure Global Security".
    In the option "Authorization" select "Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy" and put the privileges as appropriate.

11. How I can integrate the LDAP using jenkins

LDAP directories are standard technology for storaging user, group and permission information and serving that to applications in the enterprise. 

Authenticating users with an LDAP directory is a two-step process.

How to do it...

    Go to the Configure Global Security screen and select Enable security.
    Check the LDAP checkbox.
    Add the Server value as 127.0.0.1.
    Click on the Advance button and add the following details:
        User Search Base: ou=people,ou=mycompany,dc=nodomain
        User Search filter: uid={0}
        Group Search base: ou=groups,ou=mycompany,dc=nodomain


12. why we use nodes in jenkins

Jenkins supports the master-slave architecture, i.e. many slaves work for a master. It is also known as Jenkins Distributed Builds. 
It also allows you to run jobs on different environments like Linux, Windows, MacOS, etc


13. How to configure windows agents in jenkins

Go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Nodes, Click on the newly created agent machine.
...

    In the agent program running on your agent machine,
    click File --> Install as Windows Service. ...
    Start, type Services and Select the Services program.
    Find Jenkins Agent in the list, Double click to open.
    Select Startup type --> Automatic.

14. How to reduce the build time in jenkins

by increasing the cpu course we can reduce the time


15. I configured one project in jenkins I'm trying to configure another project but it's not getting added how you will trouble shoot.


16.What is a Jenkins file?

Jenkins Pipeline (or simply "Pipeline") is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins. ... 
The definition of a Jenkins Pipeline is typically written into a text file (called a Jenkinsfile ) which in turn is checked into a project's source control repository.


  
17. What are the artifacts in jenkins

Artifact. Artifacts can be used to represent data created as a side-effect of running a Jenkins build. Artifacts are files which are associated with a single build.
d
 A build can have any number of artifacts associated with it.



19. How you will send the notifications wether build is fail or success

by sending email notification..

20. what is the pipeline project in jenkins

Pipeline project in Jenkins is used to create a Jenkins pipeline. A Jenkins pipeline is a suite of plugins which supports implementing and integrating continuous delivery pipelines into Jenkins.
 The definition of a Jenkins Pipeline is written into a text file, which is called as the Jenkinsfile

21. what is the system type of jenkins server like t2 micro t2 medium.

 t2 large

22. what is the stages of your jenkins project like pipe line project


The machine on which Jenkins runs is called a node. A node block is mainly used in scripted pipeline syntax. A stage block contains a series of steps in a pipeline. 

That is, the build, test, and deploy processes all come together in a stage.

23. How will you give authentication permissions to the users in jenkins

Jenkins' Own User Database

    Select Manage Jenkins, then Configure Global Security.
    Click Enable Security. The page will expand to offer a choice of access control.
    Select Jenkins' own user database.
    Place a check mark next to Allow users to sign up.
    Continue with Authorization, below.


24. I have upgraded from one version to another version in jenkins after upgrading some of my upgraded plugins are not supporting to new version of
      Jenkins then what you will do.

 backup jenkins by using thinbackup plugin

25. How you will decide no of executors in jenkins


The maximum number of Jenkins jobs is dependent upon what you set as the limits in the master and slaves.

Usually, we limit by the number of cores, but your mileage may vary depending upon available memory, disk speed, availability of SSD, and overlap of source code.

For the master, this is set in Manage Jenkins > Configure System > # of executors

For the slaves (nodes), it is set in Manage Jenkins > Nodes > (each node) > Configure > # of executors



26.What is Maven life cycle?
The Maven Life Cycle phase gives the order of goals and information about the packaging type in a project. 
The build Maven Life Cycle is divided into 3 types, they are: Default Lifecycle. Clean Lifecycle. Site Lifecycle.


27. How set maven deployment path


28. How to define no of executors in jenkins

29.How do I start Jenkins agent?

Go to Manage Jenkins > Manage Nodes, Click on the newly created agent machine.
...

    In the agent program running on your agent machine,
    click File --> Install as Windows Service. ...
    Start, type Services and Select the Services program.
    Find Jenkins Agent in the list, Double click to open.
    Select Startup type --> Automatic.

30.How do I manage Jenkins?
Go to the Jenkins home page and click the 'Manage Jenkins' menu option. Then, select the 'Configure System' option

31.How do I start Jenkins?
To start Jenkins from command line

    Open command prompt.
    Go to the directory where your war file is placed and run the following command: java -jar jenkins.war.

32.How do I give access to Jenkins?
Essentially you do this:

    Go to Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> Configure Global Security.
    Check "Enable security".
    Set "Jenkins own user database" as security realm.
    Check "Allow users to sign up"
    Choose "Matrix based security"
    Check "Overall read" on Anonymous.
    Add your admin account in the matrix, check every box

33.How does Jenkins integrate with Git?
Install GIT Plugin

    Step 1: Click on the Manage Jenkins button on your Jenkins dashboard:
    Step 2: Click on Manage Plugins:
    Step 3: In the Plugins Page.
    Step 4: Once the plugins have been installed, go to Manage Jenkins on your Jenkins dashboard. ...
    Step 1) Create a new job in Jenkins, open the Jenkins dashboard with your Jenkins URL.

34.How do I add a user to Jenkins?
Jenkins' Own User Database

    Select Manage Jenkins, then Configure Global Security.
    Click Enable Security. The page will expand to offer a choice of access control.
    Select Jenkins' own user database.
    Place a check mark next to Allow users to sign up.
    Continue with Authorization,

35.How do I run Jenkins on Windows?
Unzip the file to a folder and click on the Jenkins exe file.

    Click "Next" to start the installation.
    Click the "Change..." button if you want to install Jenkins in another folder. ...
    Click the "Install" button to start the installation process.
    The installation is processing.

36.What is number of executors in Jenkins?
If you also have remote build slaves, you can set up multiple executors on those as well. 
Your maximum number of concurrent jobs will be (executors on master) + (number of remote slaves) * (executors per slave).

37.How do I start Jenkins war?
To download and run the WAR file version of Jenkins:

    Download the latest stable Jenkins WAR file to an appropriate directory on your machine.
    Open up a terminal/command prompt window to the download directory.
    Run the command java -jar jenkins.war .
    Continue on with the Post-installation setup wizard below.

38.How do I assign a role in Jenkins?
Assign Users to the new Group (Role) After creating the roles (either global role, or project role) with appropriate permissions, the next step is to assign users to this role. 
For this, go to “Manage Jenkins” -> “Manage and Assign Roles” -> Click on “Assign Roles”

39.How do I give admin rights to a user in Jenkins?
Step 1. Go to Manage Jenkins -> Manage Users -> Create user -> Set Credentials (username, password etc).  
Go to manage jenkin -> configure global security -> Make sure Enable Security is checked -> Check : role based strategy authorization (as admin).

40.How does Jenkins integrate with Amazon s3?
There is no need to run anything in addition to running a build.

    Create a new bucket for Jenkins in AWS S3.
    Install S3 Plugin in Jenkins. Now go to Dashboard -> Manage Jenkins -> Manage Plugins and select.
    Configure in Jenkins Job. ...
    Configure your S3 Profile and define the files to upload.


41.How can we secure Jenkins?
Why to Secure Jenkins?

    Deploy the Jenkins.war and start the server.
    Open the Jenkins home page and click on Manage Jenkins.
    In the Manage Jenkins page, click on Setup Security button.
    In the next page, select the enable security check box.
    Here, the very first thing to be done is to set the security realm.

42.How do I start Jenkins after installing?
Installing Jenkins

    Open the command prompt window and browse to the directory where the jenkins.war file is present, through the command cd C:\Program Files (x86)\Jenkins.
    Run the command java -jar jenkins.war.
    Wait until the process is complete.

43.How do I create a Jenkins job?
Creating a new build job in Jenkins with Git

    On the Jenkins dashboard, click on Manage Jenkins and select Manage Plugins. ...
    Click the checkbox and click on the button, Download now and install after restart.
    Restart Jenkins.
    Create a new Freestyle project. ...
    Configure Git in the Source Code Management section.

44.What is executors in Jenkins?
Executor : A slot for execution of work defined by a Pipeline or Project on a Node. 
A Node may have zero or more Executors configured which corresponds to how many concurrent Projects or Pipelines are able to execute on that Node. 


45.How do I start Jenkins on a different port?


    Go to the directory where you installed the Jenkins (In default, it is under Program Files/Jenkins)
    Open the Jenkins.xml.
    Search --httpPort=8080 and replace the 8080 with the new port number that you wish.

46.How do I start Jenkins as a Windows service?
Install Jenkins as a Windows service. First, you need to start Jenkins before installing it. This can be done from JNLP, or by running " java -jar jenkins.war ". 
Once Jenkins is started this way, look for the "Install as Windows Service" link in the "Manage Jenkins" page.

47.How do I give permission to Jenkins?
Security Realm

    Select Manage Jenkins, then Configure Global Security.
    Click Enable Security. The page will expand to offer a choice of access control.
    Select Jenkins' own user database.
    Place a check mark next to Allow users to sign up.
    Continue with Authorization.

48.How do I enable project based security in Jenkins?


    Login to Jenkins with your credentials.
    Go to "Manage Jenkins".
    Go to "Configure Global Security".
    In the option "Authorization" select "Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy" and put the privileges as appropriate.

49.How do I run a Jenkins WAR file on a different port?
Using different ports for Jenkins

    If you run Jenkins using the command line, 
then you can execute a command such as java -jar -httpPort=9999 jenkins.war to change the existing port from 8080 to 9999

50.How do I create a workspace in Jenkins?
Navigate to Jenkins->Manage Jenkins->Configure System and click on the Advanced Button on the right hand side.
 Now you can change your workspace and build directory to any other location on your machine .

51.What is an unstable build in Jenkins?

A build is stable if it was built successfully and no publisher reports it as unstable  
A build is unstable if it was built successfully and one or more publishers report it unstable. 
For example if the JUnit publisher is configured and a test fails then the build will be marked unstable.

52.What are upstream and downstream jobs in Jenkins?

Understanding upstream and downstream jobs. An upstream job is a configured project that triggers a project as of its execution. 
A downstream job is a configured project that is triggered as part of a execution of pipeline. 
... We can configure one or more projects as downstream jobs in Jenkins.

53.What is Jenkins configuration file?
The job configuration file is config.xml , the builds are stored in builds/ , and the working directory is workspace/ . 
See the Jenkins documentation for a visual representation and further details. 
Am adding few things related to jenkins configuration files storage.

54.where do you find errors in jenkins

Click on the 'Console Output

or

Click 'Back to Project'

Then Click Workspace on the left and go to the specified file location. Ex: data-mart-db/target/ [You can find log files below the actual code files.]

55.how do you integrate sonarqube in jenkins

install sonar scannar plugin

configure the sonarqube in jenkins master

56.how do you find logs in jenkins

    locate jenkins service file : /etc/default/jenkins
    Open it and probably you will see file /var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log 

57.difference b/w ant and maven

Ant doesn't have formal conventions. You have to tell Ant exactly where to find the source, where to put the outputs, etc.
Ant is procedural. You have to tell Ant exactly what to do; tell it to compile, copy, then compress, etc.
Ant doesn't have a lifecycle.
Maven uses conventions. It knows where your source code is automatically, as long as you follow these conventions. You don't need to tell Maven where it is.
Maven is declarative; All you have to do is create a pom.xml file and put your source in the default directory. Maven will take care of the rest.
Maven has a lifecycle. You simply call mvn install and a series of sequence steps are executed. 

58.pom.xml in jenkins

Once Jenkins build starts it will download the source code to .jenkins\jobs\yourjobname\workspace and builds it there,

Using pom.xml(Maven) you can configure dependencies needed for building testing and running code. Maven automatically downloads the necessary files from the repository while building the project

59.what is poll scm?

Poll SCM periodically polls the SCM to check whether changes were made (i.e. new commits) and builds the project if new commits where pushed since the last build, whereas build periodically builds the project periodically even if nothing has changed.

60.what is difference between github and bitbucket	

1) Github provides you inline editing and network graphs whereas bitbucket doesn't provide you that. 2) Github's monthly price is cheap, but bitbucket is cheaper than Github. 3) Github doesn't provide any free private repositories whereas Bitbucket provides you unlimited free private repositories.A

70. maven repositories?

local:Maven local repository is a folder location on your machine. It gets created when you run any maven command for the first time.

central:Maven central repository is repository provided by Maven community. It contains a large number of commonly used libraries.

remote:which is developer's own custom repository containing required libraries or other project jars.

71.in jenkins how to give backup from one server to another server


    Copy all the files in your JENKINS_HOME directory over to the new server.
    Point JENKINS_HOME on the new server at the new directory.
    Copy the Jenkins war file (or your servlet container setup if you have one) over to the new machine and start it up.

All Jenkins settings, jobs, plugins, config, etc. live in JENKINS_HOME. You just need a copy of it to start it elsewhere.


72. artifactory release plugin

giving versionings





























AWS:

1.   How to increase the root volume size of your ec2 instance.


note:If you want to expand the EBS root volume of EC2 Linux running on a current generation instance, you can use the Amazon EBS Elastic Volumes feature. 
To expand the EBS-based root volume of EC2 Linux running on a previous generation instance, you must detach and reattach the volume.

Log into your AWS account and navigate to EC2. ...
View Instance Details. Locate the Root Device and Block Devices. ...
Navigate to Volumes. ...
Update Volume Size. ...
Expand Volume via SSH. ...
List Available Storage Blocks. ...
Expand Partition to New Available Disk Volume.

2. How to increase the root volume of your ec2 instance without changing instance ip address





3.   How to scale instances timings base using autoscaling




4.   How to configure ELB in AWS


    Before You Begin.
    Step 1: Select a Load Balancer Type.
    Step 2: Define Your Load Balancer.
    Step 3: Assign Security Groups to Your Load Balancer in a VPC.
    Step 4: Configure Health Checks for Your EC2 Instances.
    Step 5: Register EC2 Instances with Your Load Balancer.
    Step 6: Tag Your Load Balancer (Optional)


5.   What is sticky session ELB in AWS

Configure Sticky Sessions for Your Classic Load Balancer. However, you can use the sticky session feature (also known as session affinity), 

which enables the load balancer to bind a user's session to a specific instance. 

This ensures that all requests from the user during the session are sent to the same instance.


6.   How will you configure sticky session

Enable sticky session AWS load balancer
Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.

    On the navigation pane, under LOAD BALANCING, choose Load Balancers.
    Select your load balancer.
    On the Description tab, choose Edit stickiness.
    On the Edit stickiness page, select Enable application generated cookie stickiness.




7.   How to upload SSL certificates in ELB

Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.

    In the navigation pane, under NETWORK & SECURITY, click Load Balancers.
    Select your load balancer.
    In the bottom pane, select the Listeners tab.
    In the Listeners pane, click Change in the SSL Certificate column of the certificate you want to update.


8.   What is cross balancing in ELB

With cross-zone load balancing, each load balancer node for your Classic Load Balancer distributes requests evenly 
across the registered instances in all enabled Availability Zones. 

9.   How to delete the one year old files in s3 bucket in AWS


10. what is Classic ELB
11. What is Application ELB
12. What is the difference between classic and Application ELB
13. How to redirect the https in ELB
14. How to deploy or copy the application on autoscaling
15. What life cycle in S3
16. Have worked on spot instances
17. What is cloud formation
18. What is CloudFront
19. What is public subnet and private subnet in aws
20. what are the challenges you faced while migrating servers from physical to cloud
21. What is RDS in aws and how will you launch RDS in instance in AWS and how will you connect it.
22. Difference between private cloud and public cloud
23. What is EC2, S3, ELB, Autoscaling, Cloudforamtion, CloudFront.
24. I want to stop 24 hours mysql database instance how you will stop it.
25. how to configure ELB health checks
26. what is the difference between AMI and Snapshot
27. I want to configure ELB with one instance does it work
28. which mysql versions are available in RDS
29. what is VPC in AWS and what is the use of VPC and how will you create public, private subnets and NAT instances and gateways
30. What are the terminologies available in route53
31. IAM policies
32. what is the mechanism of ELB
33. what is the mechanism of Autoscaling group
34. How will you provide ec2 instance key to users are you using any protocall for this


35.How do I add storage to an existing ec2 instance?
How To Add Instance Stores To EC2 Instances

    Choose your AMI and instance type in the next 2 steps, and click “Next: Configure Instance Details”. ...
    Complete “Step 3: Configure Instance Details” with your settings, and click “Next: Add Storage”
    In “Step 4: Add Storage”, click “Add New Volume” and choose instance store and device location.


36.Can you attach an EBS volume to more than one ec2 instance at the same time?
An EBS volume can be attached to only one instance at a time, but multiple volumes can be attached to a single instance.
 If you attach multiple volumes to a device that you have named, you can stripe data across the volumes for increased I/O and throughput performance.


37.How many Internet Gateway S can be associated with one VPC?
5 Internet Gateways
You can however have 5 Internet Gateways per REGION. 
If you test this within AWS VPC section, you'll see you can create multiple IGW's, however you're only able to ASSOCIATE it with one VPC. 
The default VPC already has one attached.

38.How many subnets can I create per VPC?
Currently you can create 200 subnets per VPC. If you would like to create more, please submit a case at the support center. Q. 
Is there a limit on how large or small a subnet can be? The minimum size of a subnet is a /28 (or 14 IP addresses.) for IPv4.

39.Is AWS VPC free?
Pricing information for AWS Site-to-Site VPN is available here. Pricing information for AWS PrivateLink is available here. 
If you choose to create a NAT gateway in your VPC, you are charged for each “NAT Gateway-hour" that your NAT gateway is provisioned and available.

40.Load Balancer Types. 

Elastic Load Balancing supports the following types of load balancers: 

Application Load Balancers, 
Network Load Balancers, and 
Classic Load Balancers.
 Amazon ECS services can use either type of load balancer. Application Load Balancers are used to route HTTP/HTTPS (or Layer 7) traffic.



















   

Chef: 

1. How communication happens chef server and workstation
2. How communication happens chef server and nodes
3. How communication happens chef client or nodes and workstation
4. What is the configuration file of chef
5. Which cookbook you wrote in chef and how will you write could you explain.
6. How to deploy java applications using chef
7. I want to update java version suppose from java 1.6 to 1.7 without modifying recipe how will you do that.
8. How does chef server knows perticular node this is node for me.
9. How will you take backup of nodes using chef
10. How will you build chef opscode local server
11. Is chef having ssl certificates? 



Ansible: 

1. Have you worked on ansible
2. Which Scripting used in Ansible

Docker:

 1. How you will build theyour own docker images
 2. How to find background process in docker containers
 3. what is docker swarm & Compose
4. Which applications are running in your docker containers
5. what is entry poind and command in in docker

	 ENTRYPOINT and CMD give you a way to identify which executable should be run when a container is started from your image

6. In docker-compose one of my instance is down then how will you troubleshoot
7. what is the difference between vm and docker
8. Is docker image as iso or is there any else
9. How containers share memory by baremetalbox or some where else
10. How containers will get volumes

Linux:

1. I have 100GB space in my '/' directory I'm trying to create files or directories in '/' directory I'm getting error called you dont have space,
then what could be the reason
Ans) Inode full
2. Shift  A guy created filesystem and mount it to /tmp, shift B guy trying to create files and directories in /tmp, but he is unable to create files or dir's
then what could be the reason
Ans) May be filesystem is in read only mode
3. what is the difference between useradd and adduser commands in linux
4. what is logrotate how will you create logrotate for apache
5. what is swap
6. how to check swap space
free, free -m
7. Is swap space must need while installing linux os
8. what is the use of iostat and vmstat commands
8. what are the columns and rows in vmstat, iostat, top commands
9. what are the run levels in linux
10. what is system storage management(ssm)
11. how to upgrade rhel6 to 7
12. which versions of packages you installed like nginx, apache, httpd..
13. what is nginx

Vagrant:

1. What is vagrant file 

Nagios:

1. Which monitoring tool you are using
2. Have you configured NagiOS.
3. How to configure nagios services
4. What are the states of nagios
