Qns: What is 2/2 Checks:

Ans:  If status checks shows status 2/2 checked passed, then the instance is in healthy state.

AWS EC2 provides status checks that detect the problems with the underlying EC2 system used by the individual system. 
   There are two types of checks performed every five minutes, which return a pass or a fail status. The two checks are:

System Reachability 
               Check, which confirms that AWS is able to get the network packets to the user’s instance.


Instance Status Check,
 which detects a problem within the EC2 instance.If both the checks are passed, the overall status of the instance will be OK.
   If one of the checks fails, the overall status of the instance will be impaired. The following guide demonstrates how to set the status 
   check alerts for the instance.

The sample probable reasons for the failure of status checks include:

A) System connectivity Checks:

Loss of network connectivity
Loss of system power
Software issues on the physical host
Hardware issues on the physical host
B) Instance Status Checks:

Mis-configured networking or startup configuration
Exhausted memory
Corrupted file system
Incompatible kernel

Qns: How Many Types of User data:
Ans: You can pass two types of user data to Amazon EC2: shell scripts and cloud-init directives. You can also pass this data into the 
     launch wizard as plain text, as a file.


Qns: How Many Type of Security group in aws. and what is diff. b/w them.
Ans: There are two type of security in aws. 
      1. Security Group:  2. Nacl 
Difference. 
1.Security Group applied at the instance lavel where as Nacl applied at the Subnet lavel.
2. we can write the rules only open the communication. where as in Nacl we can write the rule for allow or deny the traffic.


Qns: What is Difference b/W public cloud and Private Cloud.
Ans: MicroSoft Window Azuer is example of public cloud .  the network, stoarge and memory are provided by the provider 
    for every one on the basic pay and use go. where private cloud is used only by the specific organization. 


Qns: Why we attach the security Group.
Ans: The Security Group is applied at the instance lavel. we attach the seurity group for the security group. with the help of security group 
     we can protect the unauthorized traffic at the instance for the safey purpose.


Qns: How Can Make the Ec2 instance is Public?
Ans: when we attch the router to the subnet where my instance is create. after that my instance will be public instance.


Qns: What is Load Balancer. And we can apply the load balance at the single instance or not?
Ans: The load Balancer automatically distribute the incoming web traffic at the applications and the containers which are hosted into the ec2 instance.
     and we do not apply the load Balancer at the single instance.


Qns: What is Route 53?
Ans: The route 53 is service in AWS . which are resolving the host name into the ip addresses and ip addresses into the host name.
     The Route 53 work as private dns in cloud. 

Qns: What is Role?
Ans: When we applied the any policy at the ec2 instance or service in aws . then this policy is called the Role.
    or You can say the role is service in aws which provide the service to the another service in AWS.
   for example: applied the ssm role at the instance.


Qns: What are metrics used in Autoscalig?
Ans: there are many metrics in Autoscaling . but mostly use the cpu Utilization metrics.

Qns: What is Port no. of ssh.
Ans: 22

Qns: Tell me about the firewall?
Qns: As the name suggest the firewall is wall which sit b/w two different network. with the help of firewall we can deny the traffic or 
    we can allowed the traffic.

Qns: While doing the scale up does the old instance is terminated or collipse.
Ans: for maintaing the state. or maintain the load of traffic .

Qns: There are any limit of aws engineer for work or doing something into the linux machine.
Ans:


Qns: Tell me code or command to pull everything in linux machine.

