Qns: Tell me about yourself.

“Well, I am a confident, hardworking and a very professional individual. I have always carried out all the tasks assigned to
 me without hesitation, provided the instructions from my Reporting Managers or seniors were clear. 

I am from XYZ City and belong to a nuclear family. My father is a Central Government Employee and my mother is
 a Vice Principal at a private school. My younger sister will appear her CBSE 10th board this year. We are a very close-knit family.


Qns: Why should I hire you?
Ans: sir my skills are matching to the job profile. I need a good platform where I can explore & enhance my knowledge 
     resulting in the growth of an organization & simultaneously the growth of my career. If you provide this opportunity to me, 
     I will perform my best in all working stages whether the given work is challenging or not.



Qns: What is your strengh and weakness?
Ans:My strength: 
        I am a self-motivated, self-confident and hard worker and i am a quick learner.
My weakness: 
I am little bit sensitive and overthinking.



Qns: Why do you want to work at our company?
Ans: Sir, "Based on the research I've done, this company is an industry leader.
     When I visited your website, I found some impressive information about future projects you have planned. 
     I was also impressed with the founder's backgrounds and the current financial statements. 
     This is the company I've been looking for, a place where my background, experience and skills can be put to use and make things happen"

Qns: What is the difference between confidence and over confidence?
Ans: i can do it this work is called the confident and i can only do it this work is called the over confident.


Qns:What is the difference between hard work and smart work?
Ans: According to me, both hard work and smart work to give the best result.
     But without hard work, not possible smart work, because;
     Hard work gives you experience.
     Smart work comes with experience.



Qns: How do you feel about working weekends and night shifts?
Ans:Sir, company growth is employees growth. If a company need me I will there. 
   Extra work gives me an experience that how to work in a critical situation.



Qns:How many hours a week do you normally work?

Sir, for me getting work done is more important than counting hours
sir, According to me, time doesn't matter, But to complete my work properly & on time is important



Qns:Do you have any questions for me?
Ans: Thank you, sir, for giving me this opportunity.
     Please give me some suggestions on how can I improve me in this? It will be very helpful for me.


Qns: Why are you looking for a job change.


First, I'm very thankful to my previous organisation as I learnt a lot of skills like team management, 
working under pressure, punctuality,.etc. and I feel that change is a part of life and I want to grow myself professionally and financially.
and i always look for a new opportunity that boosts my confidence secondly need a platform to enhance my skills and ability and to utilise it
properly which would be beneficial to me and the organisation.

I will put my 100% knowledge and experience to the benefit of this company.

Thanks 
yogesh.








Qns:What did you do in the last year to improve your knowledge?
Ans:



Qns: Explain the difference between group and team. Are you a team player?
Ans: 

Qns: What do your friends/co-workers say about you?
Ans: i like to build the strong relationship with team or frined. if you asked about me from my frineds/ co-worker. you defenitely get the
     positive feed back about me.








QNs:What are your strong points? or What are your strengths?
Ans: 

Qns: Where do you see yourself five years from now?
Ans: I am looking forward to be a part of this organisation and to hold a good position, so I can grow professionally and personally.
     After 5 years, I want to see myself as a responsible person which my company expect to me.


Qns: what do want to join this company:
ans: the first reason is that this company is near by home town. another reason is that in MNC company there are a certain boundary.
     and i know the edwisor is a startup company. and there are more challenge . but i want to  expose the technically. that whay i want to work in this company.


edwisor Overview
Website	www.edwisor.com
Headquarters	Gurgaon, Haryana
Size	51 to 200 employees
Founded	2015
Type	Company - Private
Industry	Education Training Services
Revenue	Unknown / Non-Applicable
Competitors.




Raman is Founder & CEO of edWisor has experience of over 10 yrs of working with industry stalwarts 
like BCG, ITC, KPMG, and now solving the skill and employability problem with edWisor.


edWisor started in 2015 with a vision to transform professional career of millions of students and professionals who are struggling achieve their Dream Career. 


FEATURED PROGRAMS
DATA SCIENTIST
MEAN STACK DEVELOPER
FRONTEND DEVELOPER




Qns: What do you want to join our company.
Ans: For Better Carrer growth. i was planning to switch north side . because i am  belongs to there.
