                                                             System Manager:


Withoutsystemmanager:
               we have  one machine in public subnet and another machine in private subnet.and i want to maintinance in both machine. how.

             * we can  login into public subnet and maintain the machine. but  we do not login directly in to privare subnet machine
               in that case we use the bastion host concept.


with system Manager:
                There is no need the concept of bastion host because system manager installing the agent in to ec2 machine. 
                there in no need to login the machine for the mainenance.

                                         what is system manager:
    

    the respondibility of system manager upgrede the system and do the activity of administractor. without opening the uncessary port. 
    and donot need the bastion hosts.this is the first use case of system manager.

      


   System manager do the activity of administractor . there is no need to open the unnecessary port and bastion host concept for upgrade the machine.   
   and system manaher identfied only those machine which have the system manager agent.  AWS Systems Manager gives you visibility and control of your 
   infrastructure on AWS.the agent generate the logs. into the same machine. if you want to forward the logs you can forword the logs into cloud watch.




  in Aws System manager is service which are used to view and control all the infrastructure in aws. with the help of
 system manager we can manage and configure the ec2 instance and windows operating system , on-primise server, virtual machine, 
 and  apply the os patches. the system manager do the activity of administractor and system manager identified only those machine where  
 ssm agent is installed.  




Benifits:
* manage hybrid cloud system
* easy to use automation
* maintain security 
* reduce cost.
* shorten time to detect the problem.




How do the work system manager agent:
                       System manager agent(ssm) installed in ec2 machine.and processes the request  from system manager to aws cloud and perfrom
                       or executed the commands and back to the result the system manager through the system message service.



04/04/2019

practice.

* aws console:
      emaidid:
      password
* service:
     ec2
* click on launch machine.
   select 2012 ok
   instance type t2.micro
   configure instance type no change next
   add storege no change ckick on next option
   add tag (write the name as window) click at next
   security group name: (as you wish let i give the rdb)

Note; in linux use ssh 22 port in window you rdp(remote desktop protocol)
and port no 3389. click on next.
 
lauch click 
pem.file 
       launch instance:
            click on connect.
                click on get password
                                   close.
getpassword
choose the pem.file 
              decrypted the password
                       copy the password
                          and download the password.

                              click on open
                              and paste the password into administractor and click on ok button.      

after some time window is installed.

google: aws system manager
                what is system manager click.
                   read  the documentaion and see the image.


google: aws ec2 system manager.
             setting up system manager.
               click on ssm install manually

          click on system manager prerequest.
             read the documentation.

* installing and configuring ssm agent on windows instance.(2012)









05/04/2019
System Manager:
   * authorization to your ec2 machines to speak with system manager.
   * installation
        = agent
*system manager can used for On premise machine also .they machine are in office are used the system manager.

* authorization
* installation
* activation
note: activate the machine this is valif for me and its speak with the system manger.

note: what is the administractor activity we will do.
    * Commands
    * patching
     

what is system manger:
system manager is interface where without login into the machine. you can patch your system and you execute the commands.

how to create the authorization. go to the practce page.

note: generally we create a normal user we create a policy. of administractor
     but in case of ssm we do not need to create the policy.there is we create the policy of ssm .the access ,screat key.

Roles: i give the role of ec2 machine because ec2 machine as a system manager.

system instance: in system instance any machine speak with system manager.

qns: i have a private machine how its configure that.
and: activate the machine and run the above command.


compliant: security group open or not all kind of problem see here.
patching: the administractor patching os each other. is called the patching

state manager: state manager manage the state when we create the multiple thing.







install the ssm agent in ubuntu 18.04 or 16.04.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/sysman-manual-agent-install.html#agent-install-ubuntu-snap
05/04/2019
pracice.
 * create the authorization.

goto the aws console.
 goto the IAM
     user
       create the user.
          usrename: ssm
              progremtic accres
           attach the existing poclicy
          and administracor do work any where but do click on AmazonSSMF access 
             click on tag
               click on next.
                create the user.


Role:
click on role 
   create the role.
        select ec2
            click on permision
click on AmazonEc2RoleForSSM           note: this role predefined  defined by amazon for ssm .
              next
                  click on review
                 
                     role name: myssm
                       create role

again goto the service
          now create the ec2 machine.      note: click on ec2 machine.

select the ami
      choose instance type
            configure instance type
              in configre instance type select IAM role: <myssm>
                       add storage next
                          add tag next
                          security group : in security group select existing security group or create sg.
                           click on review.
                                 click on instance id.  
                                   select or create new file   
                                         click on  launch.                       




note: create another machine but in this machine not add the role.

elect the ami
      choose instance type
            configure instance type
                    add storage next
                          add tag next
                          security group : in security group select existing security group or create sg.
                           click on review.
                                 click on instance id.  
                                   select or create new file   
                                         click on launch

note: click on service and select ec2 machine and select ec2 machine with role.
        click on connect
         copy the pem.file and open the gitbashhere where store our keypair 
          and paste the ssh -i command.

   google: manaually install the ssm agent for ec2 machine.
           copy the command and paste the gitbash.
            copy the status service.
            copy the enabled service.


goto run command. 
           click at create run command 
                select Aws-RunShellScripts.
                 select instance. 

note: you see withrole ec2 machine is allready select because we have a agent. and agent connection to that.
what is command executed.

Commands: pwd
           ls -la

            click on run
             click on review.
      clcik on output.
 result: it see the file present in the current working directory.

again click on run command.
give the command in command option.

sudo yum install httpd -y
   clicl on run
   view review
  click on output.

note: outbond internet connection is  required.


resume:
using the system manager to maintain the ec2 machine in aws.







Note: window not understand key value pair. window generally understand user name and password.and other kervorse.this is a internal authentication.
Note: generally we have the private key and amazon have the public key and we give the key for amazon .and amazon generate the password which are use for login into window machine.


